.TH LAPP 1 2020-12-10 "lapp 0.1.0" "General Commands Manual"

.SH NAME
lapp \- diceware generator

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lapp
.RB [ \-c
.IR counter ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR word_count ]
.IR username
.IR sitename

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Lappland
is a dead simple diceware generator used to create a unique yet strong diceware
passphrase in a reproducible manner.

.B Lappland
requires an user name and a website name. In practice however these two can be
literally anything, as long as they are a valid utf-8 string. They can even be
an empty string.

.B Lappland
reads the master password from the standard input. Just like the user name and
the site name, it can be an empty string. But unlike those two, it doesn't have
to be a valid utf-8 string. In fact, it is possible to use a binary file as a
password.

.B Lappland
sends the generated diceware passphrase to the standard output. If redirected,
the trailing newline will not be appended.

.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB-c, --counter=\fIvalue\fR
set the counter value (1..255) (default: 1)
.TP
\fB-w, --words=\fIvalue\fR
set the number of words for the resulting generated passphrase (5..10)
(default: 6)
.TP
\fB-h, --help\fR
show a quick summary of all options
.TP
\fB--version\fR
show this application's version number

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP
\fBLAPPLAND_COUNTER\fR
overrides the default counter value
.TP
\fBLAPPLAND_WORD_COUNT\fR
overrides the default word count value
.PP
These environment variables can in turn be overridden by the argument options.

.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
Basic usage:

.nf
.RS
echo -n "mypassword" | lapp "John Doe" example.com
.RE
.fi

.PP
Generate a second password for the same website:

.nf
.RS
echo -n "mypassword" | lapp --counter 2 "John Doe" example.com
.RE
.fi

.PP
Generate a ten words long diceware passphrase, using a binary file as a
password:

.nf
.RS
lapp -w10 "John Doe" example.com < /path/to/binary.exe
.RE
.fi

.PP
The generated passphrase is copied onto xclip, without any newline character
attached:

.nf
.RS
echo -n "texaslove123" | lapp Lappland penguin.gov.ri | xclip -selection \
clipboard
.RE
.fi
